## Steps to write the Playbook:

- **Define the Hosts:** Specify the hosts or groups of hosts that you want to target in your playbook. This is typically done in the playbook header.

- **Set Variables (Optional):** Define any variables that your playbook will use. These can be host-specific, group-specific, or global variables.

- **Write Tasks:** Define the tasks that you want Ansible to perform on the target hosts. Tasks can include actions like installing packages, copying files, managing services, or executing shell commands.

- **Include Handlers (Optional):** Handlers are tasks that are only run if other tasks trigger them. They are typically used for actions like restarting services after configuration changes.

- **Organize Playbook Structure:** Organize your playbook into logical sections using YAML syntax. Indentation and spacing are important in YAML, so make sure your playbook is properly formatted.

- **Run the Playbook:** Once you've written your playbook, you can execute it using the ansible-playbook command.

## Below is the example of the Ansible-playbook to install and start the httpd services.

```
- hosts: webservers
  user: ansible
  become: yes
  connection: ssh
  gather_facts: yes

  tasks:
    - name: install httpd
      action: yum pkg=httpd state=present
    - name: start httpd
      action: service name=httpd state=started
    - name: copy index.html
      action: copy src=index.html dest=/var/www/html/
```

- hosts specifies the group of hosts named ```webservers``` to which the tasks will be applied.
- ```become: yes``` instructs Ansible to execute tasks with elevated privileges (typically using sudo).
- ```tasks``` is where you define the actions you want Ansible to perform. Each task has a name to describe its purpose and a module (such as yum or service) to specify the action.
- The ```yum``` module installs the httpd package if it's not already installed ```(state: present)```.
- The ```service``` module starts the Apache service (httpd) after installation ```(state: started)```.
